<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<style type="text/css">
	svg {display:block}
</style>
<title>abc2svg interface 1</title>
</head>
<body bgcolor="#faf0e6">

<h2>abc2svg interface 1</h2>

<p>
This document describes the interface of the abc2svg core
version <code>1</code> (abc2svg-1.js).
</p>

<h3>Initialization</h3>
<p>
The abc2svg core may be included in html/xhtml documents by:
<pre>&lt;script src="http://moinejf.free.fr/js/abc2svg-1.js" type="text/javascript"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;</pre>
</p>
<p>
Before any first or new ABC to SVG translation, an instance of the class
<code>Abc</code> must be created:
<pre>	var abc = new Abc(user)</pre>
</p>
<p>
The <code>user</code> argument of this function is a javascript Object which
must or may contain:
<dl>
<dt><b>img_out</b> (optional)</dt>
	<dd>Callback function which called when a new SVG image has been generated.<br/>
	This function receives one argument, a string, which is usually
	a SVG image.<br/>
	This function may be absent when no graphic generation is needed
	as, for example, for playing only.</dd>
<dt><b>errbld</b> (mandatory if no errmsg)</dt>
	<dd>Callback function which is called when some error has been found
	during the ABC parsing or the SVG generation<br/>
	This function receives 5 arguments:
	<dl>
	<dt>severity_level</dt><dd>It may be:
		<dl>
		<dd><code>0</code>: warning</dd>
		<dd><code>1</code>: error</dd>
		<dd>other value: fatal error</dd>
		</dl></dd>
	<dt>message</dt><dd>Text of the error.</dd>
	<dt>file_name</dt><dd>The file name may be <code>undefined</code>.</dd>
	<dt>line_number and column_number</dt>
		<dd>Position of the error in the ABC source.<br/>
		This information may not be known in which case
		line_number is <code>undefined</code>.<br/>
		The line and column numbers start from 0.</dd>
	</dl></dd>
<dt><b>errmsg</b> (mandatory if no errbld)</dt>
	<dd>Callback function which is called when some error has been found
	during the ABC parsing or the SVG generation<br/>
	This function receives 3 arguments:
	<dl>
	<dt>message</dt><dd>Text of the error.<br/>
		Generally, this text includes a reference of the error in the
		ABC source format:
		<pre>file_name ":" line_number ":" column_number " " error_message</pre>
		</dd>
	<dt>line_number and column_number</dt>
		<dd>Position of the error in the ABC source, same as the
		corresponding argument in <code>errbld()</code>.</dd>
	</dl></dd>
<dt><b>read_file</b> (mandatory)</dt>
	<dd>Callback function which is called to read a file.<br/>
	This function receives one argument, the name of the file as a string.
	It must return the file content as a string.<br/>
	It is called when a <code>%%abc-include</code> command has been found
	in the ABC source.</dd>
<dt><b>anno_start</b> (optional)</dt>
	<dd>Callback function for setting ABC references in the SVG images.<br/>
	This function is called just before the generation of a music element.
	It receives 7 arguments:
	<dl>
		<dt>music_type</dt>
		<dd>It is one of <code>annot</code>, <code>bar</code>, <code>clef</code>,
			<code>gchord</code>, <code>grace</code>, <code>key</code>,
			<code>meter</code>, <code>note</code>, <code>part</code>,
			<code>rest</code>, <code>tempo</code>.</dd>
		<dt>start_offset</dt>
			<dd>Offset of the music element in the ABC source.</dd>
		<dt>stop_offset</dt>
			<dd>Offset of the end of music element in the ABC source.</dd>
		<dt>x, y, w, h</dt>
			<dd>Coordinates of a rectangle which
				covers the music element.</dd>
	</dl></dd>
<dt><b>anno_stop</b> (optional)</dt>
	<dd>Callback function for setting ABC references in the SVG images.<br/>
	This function is called just after the generation of a music element.
	It receives same 7 arguments as the callback function <b>anno_stop</b>.</dd>
<dt><b>get_abcmodel</b> (optional)</dt>
	<dd>Callback function to get the internal representation of the music
	just before SVG generation.<br/>
	This function receives 4 arguments:
	<dl>
		<dt><b>tsfirst</b> (object)</dt>
			<dd>First musical symbol in the time sequence.<br/>
				The symbols are double-linked by time by
				<code>ts_next</code> / <code>ts_prev</code>.<br/>
				The start of a new sequence is marked by
					<code>seqst</code>.</dd>
		<dt><b>voice_tb</b> (array of objects)</dt>
			<dd>Voice table.<br/>
				The first symbol of a voice is <code>sym</code>.<br/>
				The symbols are double-linked in a voice by
				<code>next</code> / <code>prev</code>.</dd>
		<dt><b>music_types</b> (array of strings)</dt>
			<dd>Array giving the symbol type from integer
				value of the symbol attribute <code>type</code>.</dd>
		<dt><b>info</b> (object)</dt>
			<dd>Text of the information fields (T:, M:, Q:, P:...).<br/>
			A newline ('\n') separates the appended values.</dd>
	</dl>
	<p>
	The returned representation is destroyed by the generation, so, either
	<ul>
	<li>use it immediately before returning from the function, or</li>
	<li>unset the <code>user.img_out</code> function.</li>
	</ul>
	</p>
	</dd>
<dt><b>imagesize</b> (string)</dt>
	<dd>Define the SVG image size.<br/>
	When <code>imagesize</code> is not set, the size of the SVG images
	is the one of a sheet, as defined by %%pagewidth.<br/>
	When <code>imagesize</code> is defined, it must contain
	<code>width="<i>image_width</i>" height="<i>image_height</i>"</code>,
	<i>image_width</i> and <i>image_height</i> being any value
	accepted in the &lt;svg&gt; tag.
	</dd>
<dt><b>page_format</b> (boolean)</dt>
	<dd>Group the SVG images into non-page-breakable blocks.<br/>
	When <code>page_format</code> is not set, only the SVG images are generated.
	With XHTML output, the images go to the right of the previous ones
	(inlined images).<br/>
	When <code>page_format</code> is set, the images are grouped in
	<code>&lt;div&gt;</code> containers with a class "nobrk", and a class
	"newpage" in case of %%newpage.
	</dd>
</dl>
</p>

<h3>ABC to SVG translation</h3>
<p>
A ABC to SVG translation is done calling the Abc method <code>tosvg</code>:
<pre>	abc.tosvg(file_name, ABC_source, start_offset, end_offset)</pre>
<dl>
<dt><code>file_name</code></dt><dd>is the name of the ABC source.
	It is used for information only in error messages.</dd>
<dt><code>ABC_source</code></dt><dd>is the ABC source as a (UTF-16) string
with the <code>'\n' (\u000a)</code> as the end of line marker.</dd>
<dt><code>start_offset</code>, <code>end_offset</code></dt>
<dd>are the character offsets of the ABC sequence in the ABC_source.<br/>
They are optional and their default values are <code>0</code>
and <code>ABC_source.length</code></dd>
</dl>
</p>
<p>
This function may be called many times in which case the values set by
previous calls are kept.<br/>
The ABC source must contain full tunes, i.e. a same tune cannot be continued
by a second call to <code>tosvg</code>.
</p>

<h3>Exported attributes and methods of the Abc class</h3>

<dl>
<dt><b>blk_flush</b>: function to terminate a block of images.</dt>
<dd>
In case of fatal error during the SVG generation, this function may be called
in the error callback function to output the last SVG elements.<br/>
This function takes no argument.
</dd>

<dt><b>out_svg</b>: function to add text in the current SVG image</dt>
<dd>
It may be used only in the callback functions.<br/>
This function expects one mandatory argument:<br/>
	&nbsp;&nbsp;- <b>text</b> (string): Text to be added.
</dd>

<dt><b>sx</b>: function to convert the x coordinate</dt>
<dd>
This function expects one mandatory argument:<br/>
	&nbsp;&nbsp;- <b>x</b> (number): Local x.<br/>
It returns the <code>x</code> coordinate in the current SVG container.
</dd>

<dt><b>sy</b>: function to convert the y coordinate</dt>
<dd>
This function expects one mandatory argument:<br/>
	&nbsp;&nbsp;- <b>y</b> (number): Local y.<br/>
It returns the <code>y</code> coordinate in the current SVG container.
</dd>

<dt><b>out_sxsy</b>: function to output x,y coordinates</dt>
<dd>
It may be used only in the callback functions.<br/>
This function expects 3 mandatory arguments:<br/>
	&nbsp;&nbsp;- <b>x</b> (number): x offset<br/>
	&nbsp;&nbsp;- <b>separator</b> (string):
			text between x and y in the SVG element<br/>
	&nbsp;&nbsp;- <b>y</b> (number): y offset
</dd>

<dt><b>sh</b>: function to convert a height</dt>
<dd>
This function expects one mandatory argument:<br/>
	&nbsp;&nbsp;- <b>h</b> (number): Local height.<br/>
It returns the height in the current SVG container.
</dd>

<dt><b>ax</b>: function to convert the x coordinate</dt>
<dt><b>ay</b>: function to convert the y coordinate</dt>
<dt><b>ah</b>: function to convert a height</dt>
<dd>
These functions return values relative to the global SVG container.<br/>
They may be used in place of <code>sx</code>, <code>sy</code>
and <code>sh</code> when elements must be globally added (by <code>out_svg</code>.<br/>
When <code>%%pagescale</code> is 1 (default), there is no global container
(the coordinates are the ones of the SVG image).<br/>
When this is not the case, a global &lt;g&gt; container is added, with the class "g".

</dd>

</dl>

<h3>Global variables</h3>
<p>
The global variable <code>abc2svg</code> is an object which contains:
<dl>
<dt><b>version</b></dt><dd>current version of abc2svg</dd>
<dt><b>vdate</b></dt><dd>date of the distribution of current version</dd>
</dl>
</p>
</body>
</html>
